Add Monitor hybrid React Native apps guide (#22929)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/guide/monitor-hybrid-react-native-applications.md

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/advanced_configuration/?tab=objectivec#automatically-track-network-requests
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin#automatically-track-network-requests

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

You can track network requests by monitoring your `URLSession`. Learn more about how to [automatically track network requests][3].

[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin#custom-resources
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Limitations

You cannot call the native SDK before the React Native SDK has been initialized. If you have to, you need to initialize the SDK on the native side.

## Monitor native apps with React Native screens

Before you can start monitoring Reactive Native apps with native content, you need to initialize the React Native SDK.

### Initialize the React Native SDK

Install the React Native Datadog SDK with the following command options:

```shell
yarn add @datadog/mobile-react-native
```

or

```shell

> npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native.

Author: ```suggestion
npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native
```

---
title: Monitor Hybrid React Native Applications
kind: guide
description: Guide for monitoring hybrid React Native applications.
further_reading:
- link: '/monitors/create/types/real_user_monitoring/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Learn about RUM Monitors'
---

## Overview

> If you have a hybrid application built on React Native, you can use Datadog to monitor the same application both from the React Native and native sides.

Reviewer: What is "React Native" vs just "native" here?

Author: added description

> RUM Events are reported as coming from the same application and the same source in Datadog RUM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUM Events from both of these sources are reported as coming from the same application and the same source in Datadog RUM.
```

## Limitations

> - For **errors, resources, and interactions tracking**, the SDKs can work in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For **errors, resources, and interactions tracking**, the SDKs can work in the following ways:
```

Out of habit, I almost never use exact counts

Author: that's a good habit - thanks!

  - Through *auto-instrumentation* - Some React classes and methods are modified to automate this. Auto-instrumentation for JavaScript errors, resources, and interactions can only be started from JavaScript code.

>   - Through *manual instrumentation* - For example, if you want to report something you consider an error but is not going to crash the app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Through *manual instrumentation* - For example, if you want to report something that you consider an error, but which is not going to crash the app. 
```

> - You can share the same instance of the core SDK between native and React Native. This allows you to initialize the native SDK on either the native side or on the React Native side (by calling `DdSdkReactNative.initialize`) and have it initialized for both sides, with events appearing in the same RUM session. React Native uses the default core instance. This means that you can use *manual instrumentation* on both sides, but *auto-instrumentation* is only activated for the side that the SDK was initialized.

Reviewer: Does this mean that you initialize it once and it's done for both without having to initialize it for the other, or is this trying to say that you can initialize it on both sides?

Author: clarified - thanks!

> - You can only report Datadog RUM events or legs after the initialization, otherwise they are not sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can report Datadog RUM events or legs only after the initialization. If you have not initialized the SDK yet, events and legs are not sent.
```

- You cannot change the source attribute of a RUM session - all your RUM events appear under the same source.

## Monitor React Native apps with native content

Before you can start monitoring Reactive Native apps with native content, you need to initialize the React Native SDK.

### Initialize the React Native SDK

In order to initialize the SDK on both the React Native and the native side, you can follow the [React Native Monitoring documentation][1]. 

> You will be able to call both the native and React Native SDKs for logs, traces and RUM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this setup, you can call both the native and React Native SDKs for logs, traces and RUM.
```

> We recommend this solution, as long as you don't use our SDK on the native side before it has been initialized on the React Native side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend this solution if you haven't used our SDK on the native side before you initialize it on the React Native side.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}
On Android, add the Datadog Android SDKs to your dependencies in your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```java
// The version is set by @datadog/mobile-react-native
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-rum"
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-logs"
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-trace"
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-webview"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

On iOS, add the Datadog iOS SDKs to your dependencies in your ios/Podfile to use in Objective C files:

```ruby
# Make sure the version matches the one from node_modules/@datadog/mobile-react-native/DatadogSDKReactNative.podspec
pod 'DatadogSDKObjc', '~> 2.5.0'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Tracking native RUM views

> Using the `nativeViewTracking` configuration option creates many duplicate views if you use a navigation library for your React Native app like `react-navigation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a navigation library for your React Native app like `react-navigation`, using the `nativeViewTracking` configuration option creates many duplicate views.
```

If this is the case, track your native RUM Views manually. See documentation for [iOS][2] and for [Android][3].

### Tracking native RUM resources

> If you have enabled tracing with your backend, first party hosts for your native RUM Resources are the same as for your React Native RUM resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have enabled tracing with your backend, first-party hosts for your native RUM Resources are the same as for your React Native RUM resources.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

> If you use okHttp, you can use Datadog's interceptor to [automatically track network requests][1]. Alternatively, you can [manually track resources][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use OkHttp, you can use Datadog's interceptor to [automatically track network requests][1]. Alternatively, you can [manually track resources][2].
```

This is the capitalization they use on their own pages for their name.

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/advanced_configuration/?tab=objectivec#automatically-track-network-requests
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin#automatically-track-network-requests

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

You can track network requests by monitoring your `URLSession`. Learn more about how to [automatically track network requests][3].

[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/advanced_configuration/?tab=kotlin#custom-resources
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Limitations

> You cannot call the native SDK before the React Native SDK has been initialized. If you have to, you need to initialize the SDK on the native side.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what this means. Can you explain it further?

Reviewer: I still have this question :)

Reviewer 2: When you initialise the SDK on the React Native side (JavaScript / TypeScript) it will also be initialised on the native side. If you write any native code that relies on our SDK, you have to make sure that you execute that code after the initialisation on the React Native side.

For example, if you want to log the start of your application, you could think of using DataDog logs in `MainApplication` or `MainActivity` on Android, or `AppDelegate` on iOS. The problem is that if you do so, your code would be executed before the initialisation on the React Native side. Therefore, whenever you use the SDK on the native side, you should make sure it is not executed in a moment in the lifecycle where the RN initialisation hasn't been called yet.

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation!

## Monitor native apps with React Native screens

Before you can start monitoring Reactive Native apps with native content, you need to initialize the React Native SDK.

### Initialize the React Native SDK

Install the React Native Datadog SDK with the following command options:

```shell
yarn add @datadog/mobile-react-native
```

or

```shell

> npm install @datadog/mobile-react-native.

Reviewer: Is that period at the end of the `npm install` command supposed to be there?

> Make sure your native code is not executed in a moment in the lifecycle where the RN initialization has not been called yet.
> 
> When you initialize the SDK on the React Native side (JavaScript / TypeScript) it will also be initialized on the native side. If you write any native code that relies on our SDK, you have to make sure that you execute that code after the initialization on the React Native side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your native code is not executed before the React Native initialization is called. When you initialize the SDK on the React Native side, it is also initialized on the native side. If you write any native code that relies on our SDK, make sure that you execute that code after you initialize the SDK on the React Native side.
```

Author: Thanks for the call out. After spending more time with it, I realized how repetitive the original was!

```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

Add the Datadog Android SDK to your dependencies in your `android/app/build.gradle` file:

```gradle
// The version is set by @datadog/mobile-react-native
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-rum"
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-logs"
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-trace"
implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-webview"
```

> Initialize the SDK on the native side. See the official documentation for [Android][1] for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialize the SDK on the native side. See the official [Android][1] documentation for instructions.
```

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/setup/android/?tab=kotlin

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

> Initialize the SDK on the native side. See the official documentation for [iOS][1] for instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialize the SDK on the native side. See the official [iOS][1] documentation for instructions.
```

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/setup/ios/?tab=cocoapods

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Instrumenting React Native RUM Views

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

> Use a `ComponentPredicate` to filter out native views created by your navigation libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a `ComponentPredicate` to filter out native views that are created by your navigation libraries:
```

```kotlin
// Adapt the Fragment type to your View tracking strategy
class RNComponentPredicate : ComponentPredicate<Fragment> {
    override fun accept(component: Fragment): Boolean {
        // Identify and drop react native screen views
        if (component.javaClass.name.startsWith("com.swmansion.rnscreens")) {
            return false
        }
        if (component.javaClass.name.startsWith("com.facebook.react")) {
            return false
        }
        return true
    }

    override fun getViewName(component: Fragment): String? {
        return null
    }
}

// Use it in your RUM configuration
rumConfiguration.useViewTrackingStrategy(FragmentViewTrackingStrategy(true, RNComponentPredicate()))
```
Then, use `@datadog/mobile-react-navigation` to track your views.

If you have enabled ProGuard obfuscation, add rules to prevent obfuscation of the target packages in release builds.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

> Use a `UIKitRUMViewsPredicate` to filter out native views created by your navigation libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a `UIKitRUMViewsPredicate` to filter out native views that are created by your navigation libraries:
```

```swift
class RNHybridPredicate: UIKitRUMViewsPredicate {
    var defaultPredicate = DefaultUIKitRUMViewsPredicate()

    func rumView(for viewController: UIViewController) -> RUMView? {
        let canonicalClassName = NSStringFromClass(type(of: viewController))
        // Dropping RN Views
        if (canonicalClassName.starts(with: "RN")) {
            return nil
        }

        return defaultPredicate.rumView(for: viewController)
    }
}

// Use it in your RUM configuration
let rumConfiguration = RUM.Configuration(
    applicationID: applicationId,
    uiKitViewsPredicate: RNHybridPredicate(),
)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Then, use `@datadog/mobile-react-navigation` to track your views.

> If you have enabled ProGuard obfuscation, add rules to prevent obfuscation of the target packages in release builds.

Reviewer: I think this was meant to be inside the iOS tab

Reviewer: I don't think this is resolved. It still shows twice when the Android tab is selected. It either shouldn't be in that tab, or this instance should go in the iOS tab.

Author: Ahh, it's a duplicate. Will delete.

---
title: Monitor Hybrid React Native Applications
kind: guide
description: Guide for monitoring hybrid React Native applications.
further_reading:
- link: '/monitors/create/types/real_user_monitoring/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Learn about RUM Monitors'
---

## Overview

React Native is a JavaScript framework for developing hybrid mobile applications that can run natively on both Android and iOS.

> If you have a hybrid application that is built on React Native, you can use Datadog to monitor the same application both from the React Native and native sides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a hybrid application that is built on React Native, you can use Datadog to monitor the same application from both the native Android or iOS side and the React Native side.
```

What do you think about this? I don't think it needs clarification every time, but maybe once up front?

Author: agreed, thanks

- You can share the same instance of the core SDK between native and React Native. This allows you to initialize the native SDK on either the native side or on the React Native side (by calling `DdSdkReactNative.initialize`) and have it initialized for both sides, with events appearing in the same RUM session. React Native uses the default core instance. This means that you can use *manual instrumentation* on both sides, but *auto-instrumentation* is only be activated for the side that the SDK was initialized.
- You can only report Datadog RUM events or legs after the initialization, otherwise they are not sent.
- You cannot change the source attribute of a RUM session - all your RUM events appear under the same source.

## Monitor React Native apps with native content

Before you can start monitoring Reactive Native apps with native content, you need to initialize the React Native SDK.

### Initialize the React Native SDK

To initialize the React Native Datadog SDK for RUM, see the [React Native Monitoring documentation][1].

This also initializes the SDK on the native side. You are able to call both the native and React Native SDKs for logs, traces and RUM.

> If you are sure that you don't call the native SDK before the React Native SDK this is the solution we recommend.

Author: @marco-saia-datadog The way this is phrased confuses me. Can you make sense of it?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is a bit confusing. I will rephrase it.
